********************************************************************************
*                               Yumimi Mix Remix                               *
*                     English Translation Patch Materials                      *
********************************************************************************

This package contains the source materials (code/art/script) for the English 
translation project for the Sega Saturn game Yumimi Mix Remix.

                    ****************************************
                    *          Build Instructions          *
                    ****************************************
                    
The build system is only set up for Unix-like systems, though none of the code 
is fundamentally dependent on this and could be ported with a bit of effort. 
You'll need GCC, libpng, and ImageMagick (the "convert" utility), as well as any 
dependencies of armips.

You'll first need a disc image of Yumimi Mix Remix for the Sega Saturn. Use of 
the Redump-verified image is highly recommended but not strictly required.

  Redump name: Yumimi Mix Remix
  CRC32:       8c291ee5
  MD5:         d8661e29c0b882afc09f8c9fb42b06ab
  SHA-1:       77793fe43f10ccb19a724e78d16ac4fdb7c711b3

Consult redump.org for full details: http://redump.org/disc/43000/

In order to build, you'll need to extract the various resources from the disc 
and put them in the "yumimi/disc" folder in a particular configuration. Most of 
the work can be done automatically with the "discanalyze" utility included with 
discaster. Assuming you have a single-file disc image in BIN format called 
"yumimi.bin", do this:

$ cd yumimi
$ make -C../discaster
$ ../discaster/discanalyze yumimi.bin disc

This will extract the filesystem and the disc's system area and place them in 
the "disc/files" and "disc/gen" folders, respectively. You can delete the 
automatically generated "disc/script_template.dsc" file if you want, as it's not 
needed.

You'll also need to extract the CD audio tracks, and because I've yet to add CUE 
file support to discanalyze, this has to be done manually for now. If you have 
the bchunk (binchunker) utility installed, you can do this as follows:

$ cd yumimi
$ mkdir -p disc/cdda
$ bchunk -w yumimi.bin yumimi.cue disc/cdda/yumimi

You can delete the file "disc/cdda/yumimi01.iso" afterward. This should leave 
you with three audio files in WAV format in that directory, named 
"yumimi02.wav", "yumimi03.wav", etc.

Once the "disc" folder is fully set up, all you have to do is:

$ cd yumimi
$ ./build.sh

build.sh should then build all the necessary tools and output the translated 
game in BIN+CUE format as "yumimi_build.bin" and "yumimi_build.cue".

Note that translated game text is taken from the CSV files in the 
"yumimi/script" directory. While these can be edited directly, it will probably 
be easier to instead work with the ODS files in the same folder, which are 
formatted ODS spreadsheet versions of the same content. Just run 
"convertscript.sh" before "build.sh" to convert the ODS files into the CSVs 
automatically (requires OpenOffice).

If you want to modify the project, check build.sh to see where the resources 
that get inserted into the game are coming from.

                    ****************************************
                    *              Licensing               *
                    ****************************************

See COPYING. Basically, everything by me (Supper) is GPLv3, and everything else
is under the terms of whoever wrote it.

                    ****************************************
                    *               Credits                *
                    ****************************************

                                Supper -- Hacking and Translation
                                cccmar -- Testing

